---
title: "singletM_code"
author: "Erin M. Buchanan"
date: "3/17/2018"
output: 
  html_document:
        self_contained: no
---
 
The formula for d is: $$d_{av} = \frac{M_1 - M_2}{\frac{SD_1 + SD_2}{2}}$$
 
The t-test is not given in this example, as you do not have the information needed to calculate it. 
 
The code to use MOTE in R is: 
 

 
<h2>d for Dependent t with Average SD Denominator</h2>  <h3>Description</h3>  <p>This function displays d and the non-central confidence interval for repeated measures data, using the average standard deviation of each level as the denominator. </p>   <h3>Usage</h3>  <pre> d.dep.t.avg(m1, m2, sd1, sd2, n, a = 0.05) </pre>   <h3>Arguments</h3>  <table summary="R argblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>m1</code></td> <td> <p>mean from first level</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>m2</code></td> <td> <p>mean from second level</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>sd1</code></td> <td> <p>standard deviation from first level</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>sd2</code></td> <td> <p>standard deviation from second level</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>n</code></td> <td> <p>sample size</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>a</code></td> <td> <p>significance level</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>Details</h3>  <p>To calculate d, mean two is subtracted from mean one, which is then divided by the average standard deviation. </p> <p>d_av = (m1 - m2) / ((sd1 + sd2) / 2) </p> <p><a href="https://www.aggieerin.com/shiny-server/tests/deptavgm.html">Learn more on our example page.</a> </p>   <h3>Value</h3>  <p>The effect size (Cohen's d) with associated confidence intervals, the confidence intervals associated with the means of each group, standard deviations of the means for each group. </p> <table summary="R valueblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>d</code></td> <td> <p>effect size</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>dlow</code></td> <td> <p>lower level confidence interval d value</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>dhigh</code></td> <td> <p>upper level confidence interval d value</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>M1/M2</code></td> <td> <p>mean one and two</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>M1low/M2low</code></td> <td> <p>lower level confidence interval of mean one or two</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>M1high/M2high</code></td> <td> <p>upper level confidence interval of mean one or two</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>sd1/sd2</code></td> <td> <p>standard deviation of mean one and two</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>se1/se2</code></td> <td> <p>standard error of mean one and two</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>n</code></td> <td> <p>sample size</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>df</code></td> <td> <p>degrees of freedom (sample size - 1)</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>estimate</code></td> <td> <p>the d statistic and confidence interval in APA style for markdown printing</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>Examples</h3>  <pre>  #The following example is derived from the "dept_data" dataset included #in the MOTE library.  #In a study to test the effects of science fiction movies on people's #belief in the supernatural, seven people completed a measure of belief #in the supernatural before and after watching a popular science fiction #movie. Higher scores indicated higher levels of belief.      t.test(dept_data$before, dept_data$after, paired = TRUE)  #You can type in the numbers directly, or refer to the dataset, #as shown below.      d.dep.t.avg(m1 = 5.57, m2 = 4.43, sd1 = 1.99,                 sd2 = 2.88, n = 7, a = .05)      d.dep.t.avg(5.57, 4.43, 1.99, 2.88, 7, .05)      d.dep.t.avg(mean(dept_data$before), mean(dept_data$after),                 sd(dept_data$before), sd(dept_data$after),                 length(dept_data$before), .05)  #The mean measure of belief on the pretest was 5.57, with a standard #deviation of 1.99. The posttest scores appeared lower (M = 4.43, SD = 2.88) #but the dependent t-test was not significant using alpha = .05, #t(7) = 1.43, p = .203, d_av = 0.47. The effect size was a medium effect suggesting #that the movie may have influenced belief in the supernatural. </pre>   </body></html> 
