---
title: "DtoR"
author: "Amber Gillenwaters"
date: "March 23, 2018"
output: 
html_document:
 self_contained: no
---
The formula for *r* is: $$r = \frac{d} {\sqrt{d^2 + \frac{(n_1 + n_2)^2}{(n_1 \times n_2)}}}$$

The formula for *t* is: $$t = \frac{r}{\sqrt{ \frac{1-r^2} {(N - 2)}}}$$

The code to use MOTE in R is: 
 

 
<h2>r and Coefficient of Determination (R2) from d</h2>  <h3>Description</h3>  <p>Calculates r from d and then translates r to r2 to calculate the non-central confidence interval for r2 using the F distribution. </p>   <h3>Usage</h3>  <pre> d.to.r(d, n1, n2, a = 0.05) </pre>   <h3>Arguments</h3>  <table summary="R argblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>d</code></td> <td> <p>effect size statistic</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>n1</code></td> <td> <p>sample size group one</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>n2</code></td> <td> <p>sample size group two</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>a</code></td> <td> <p>significance level</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>Details</h3>  <p>The correlation coefficient (r) is calculated by dividing Cohen's d by the square root of the total sample size squared - divided by the product of the sample sizes of group one and group two. </p> <p>r = d / sqrt(d^2 + (n1 + n2)^2 / (n1*n2)) </p> <p><a href="https://www.aggieerin.com/shiny-server/tests/dtor.html">Learn more on our example page.</a> </p>   <h3>Value</h3>  <p>Provides the effect size (correlation coefficient) with associated confidence intervals, the t-statistic, F-statistic, and other estimates appropriate for d to r translation. Note this CI is not based on the traditional r-to-z transformation but rather non-central F using the ci.R function from MBESS. </p> <table summary="R valueblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>r</code></td> <td> <p>correlation coefficient</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>rlow</code></td> <td> <p>lower level confidence interval r</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>rhigh</code></td> <td> <p>upper level confidence interval r</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>R2</code></td> <td> <p>coefficient of determination</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>R2low</code></td> <td> <p>lower level confidence interval of R2</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>R2high</code></td> <td> <p>upper level confidence interval of R2</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>se</code></td> <td> <p>standard error</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>n</code></td> <td> <p>sample size</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>dfm</code></td> <td> <p>degrees of freedom of mean</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>dfe</code></td> <td> <p>degrees of freedom error</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>t</code></td> <td> <p>t-statistic</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>F</code></td> <td> <p>F-statistic</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>p</code></td> <td> <p>p-value</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>estimate</code></td> <td> <p>the r statistic and confidence interval in APA style for markdown printing</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>estimateR2</code></td> <td> <p>the R^2 statistic and confidence interval in APA style for markdown printing</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>statistic</code></td> <td> <p>the t-statistic in APA style for markdown printing</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>Examples</h3>  <pre>  #The following example is derived from the "indt_data" dataset, included #in the MOTE library.  #A forensic psychologist conducted a study to examine whether #being hypnotized during recall affects how well a witness #can remember facts about an event. Eight participants #watched a short film of a mock robbery, after which #each participant was questioned about what he or she had #seen. The four participants in the experimental group #were questioned while they were hypnotized. The four #participants in the control group recieved the same #questioning without hypnosis.      t.test(correctq ~ group, data = indt_data)  #You can type in the numbers directly, or refer to the dataset, #as shown below.      d.ind.t(m1 = 17.75, m2 = 23, sd1 = 3.30,            sd2 = 2.16, n1 = 4, n2 = 4, a = .05)      d.ind.t(17.75, 23, 3.30, 2.16, 4, 4, .05)      d.ind.t(mean(indt_data$correctq[indt_data$group == 1]),             mean(indt_data$correctq[indt_data$group == 2]),             sd(indt_data$correctq[indt_data$group == 1]),             sd(indt_data$correctq[indt_data$group == 2]),             length(indt_data$correctq[indt_data$group == 1]),             length(indt_data$correctq[indt_data$group == 2]),             .05)  #Contrary to the hypothesized result, the group that underwent #hypnosis were significantly less accurate while reporting #facts than the control group with a large effect size, t(6) = -2.66, #p = .038, d_s = 1.88.       d.to.r(d = -1.88, n1 = 4, n2 = 4, a = .05) </pre>   </body></html> 
