---
title: "omegaSS_page"
author: "Gillenwaters"
date: "3/23/2018"
output: 
html_document:
 self_contained: no
---

The formula for $\omega^2$ is: $$\frac{df_{model} \times (MS_{model} - MS_{error})}{SS_{total} + MS_{error}}$$

The formula for *F* is: $$\frac{MS_{model}}{MS_{error}}$$

The code to use MOTE in R is: 
 

 
<h2>Omega Squared for One-Way and Multi-Way ANOVA from F</h2>  <h3>Description</h3>  <p>This function displays omega squared from ANOVA analyses and its non-central confidence interval based on the F distribution. This formula works for one way and multi way designs with careful focus on which error term you are using for the calculation. </p>   <h3>Usage</h3>  <pre> omega.full.SS(dfm, dfe, msm, mse, sst, a = 0.05) </pre>   <h3>Arguments</h3>  <table summary="R argblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>dfm</code></td> <td> <p>degrees of freedom for the model/IV/between</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>dfe</code></td> <td> <p>degrees of freedom for the error/residual/within</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>msm</code></td> <td> <p>mean square for the model/IV/between</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>mse</code></td> <td> <p>mean square for the error/residual/within</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>sst</code></td> <td> <p>sum of squares total</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>a</code></td> <td> <p>significance level</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>Details</h3>  <p>Omega squared is calculated by deducting the mean square of the error from the mean square of the model and multiplying by the degrees of freedom for the model. This is divided by the sum of the sum of squares total and the mean square of the error. </p> <p>omega = (dfm * (msm - mse)) / (sst + mse) </p> <p><a href="https://www.aggieerin.com/shiny-server/tests/omegass.html">Learn more on our example page.</a> </p>   <h3>Value</h3>  <p>Provides omega squared with associated confidence intervals and relevant statistics. </p> <table summary="R valueblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>omega</code></td> <td> <p>omega squared</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>omegalow</code></td> <td> <p>lower level confidence interval of omega</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>omegahigh</code></td> <td> <p>upper level confidence interval of omega</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>dfm</code></td> <td> <p>degrees of freedom for the model/IV/between</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>dfe</code></td> <td> <p>degrees of freedom for the error/resisual/within</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>F</code></td> <td> <p>F-statistic</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>p</code></td> <td> <p>p-value</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>estimate</code></td> <td> <p>the omega squared statistic and confidence interval in APA style for markdown printing</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>statistic</code></td> <td> <p>the F-statistic in APA style for markdown printing</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>Examples</h3>  <pre>  #The following example is derived from the "bn1_data" dataset, included #in the MOTE library.  #A health psychologist recorded the number of close inter-personal #attachments of 45-year-olds who were in excellent, fair, or poor #health. People in the Excellent Health group had 4, 3, 2, and 3 #close attachments; people in the Fair Health group had 3, 5, #and 8 close attachments; and people in the Poor Health group #had 3, 1, 0, and 2 close attachments.  anova_model = lm(formula = friends ~ group, data = bn1_data) summary.aov(anova_model)  omega.full.SS(dfm = 2, dfe = 8,               msm = 12.621, mse = 2.548,               sst = (25.54+19.67), a = .05) </pre>   </body></html> 
